---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/projects.locations.ragCorpora.ragFiles.ragMetadata/batchCreate
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/projects.locations.ragCorpora.ragFiles.ragMetadata/batchCreate
title: 'Method: ragMetadata.batchCreate'
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

**Full name** : projects.locations.ragCorpora.ragFiles.ragMetadata.batchCreate

Batch Create one or more RagMetadatas

### Endpoint

post `https: / /{service-endpoint} /v1beta1 /{parent} /ragMetadata:batchCreate`  

Where `{service-endpoint}` is one of the [supported service endpoints](https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest#rest_endpoints) .

### Path parameters

`parent` `string`

Required. The parent resource where the RagMetadata will be created. Format: `projects/{projectNumber}/locations/{locationId}/ragCorpora/{ragCorpus}/ragFiles/{ragFile}`

### Request body

The request body contains data with the following structure:

Fields

`requests[]` ` object ( CreateRagMetadataRequest  ` )

Required. The request messages for `  VertexRagDataService.CreateRagMetadata  ` . A maximum of 500 rag file metadata can be created in a batch.

### Response body

If successful, the response body contains an instance of `  Operation  ` .

## CreateRagMetadataRequest

Request message for ragMetadata.create.

Fields

`parent` `string`

Required. The parent resource where this metadata will be created. Format: `projects/{projectNumber}/locations/{locationId}/ragCorpora/{ragCorpus}/ragFiles/{ragFile}`

`ragMetadata` ` object ( RagMetadata  ` )

Required. The metadata to create.

`ragMetadataId` `string`

Optional. The id to use for the metadata, which will become the final component of the metadata's resource name if the user chooses to specify. Otherwise, metadata id will be generated by system.

This value should be up to 63 characters, and valid characters are /\[a-z\]\[0-9\]-/. The first character must be a letter, the last could be a letter or a number.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;parent&quot;: string,&quot;ragMetadata&quot;: {object (RagMetadata)},&quot;ragMetadataId&quot;: string}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
