---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/FeatureStatsAndAnomaly
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/FeatureStatsAndAnomaly
title: FeatureStatsAndAnomaly
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

Stats and Anomaly generated by FeatureMonitorJobs. Anomaly only includes Drift.

Fields

`featureId` `string`

feature id.

`featureStats` ` value ( Value  ` format)

feature stats. e.g. histogram buckets. In the format of tensorflow.metadata.v0.DatasetFeatureStatistics.

`distributionDeviation` `number`

Deviation from the current stats to baseline stats. 1. For categorical feature, the distribution distance is calculated by L-inifinity norm. 2. For numerical feature, the distribution distance is calculated by Jensen–Shannon divergence.

`driftDetectionThreshold` `number`

This is the threshold used when detecting drifts, which is set in FeatureMonitor.FeatureSelectionConfig.FeatureConfig.drift\_threshold

`driftDetected` `boolean`

If set to true, indicates current stats is detected as and comparing with baseline stats.

`statsTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

The timestamp we take snapshot for feature values to generate stats.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`featureMonitorJobId` `string ( int64 format)`

The id of the FeatureMonitorJob that generated this FeatureStatsAndAnomaly.

`featureMonitorId` `string`

The id of the FeatureMonitor that this FeatureStatsAndAnomaly generated according to.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;featureId&quot;: string,
  &quot;featureStats&quot;: value,
  &quot;distributionDeviation&quot;: number,
  &quot;driftDetectionThreshold&quot;: number,
  &quot;driftDetected&quot;: boolean,
  &quot;statsTime&quot;: string,
  &quot;featureMonitorJobId&quot;: string,
  &quot;featureMonitorId&quot;: string
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
