---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/FeaturestoreMonitoringConfig
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/FeaturestoreMonitoringConfig
title: FeaturestoreMonitoringConfig
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

Configuration of how features in Featurestore are monitored.

Fields

`snapshotAnalysis` ` object ( SnapshotAnalysis  ` )

The config for Snapshot Analysis Based feature Monitoring.

`importFeaturesAnalysis` ` object ( ImportFeaturesAnalysis  ` )

The config for ImportFeatures Analysis Based feature Monitoring.

`numericalThresholdConfig` ` object ( ThresholdConfig  ` )

Threshold for numerical features of anomaly detection. This is shared by all objectives of Featurestore Monitoring for numerical features (i.e. Features with type ( `  feature.ValueType  ` ) DOUBLE or INT64).

`categoricalThresholdConfig` ` object ( ThresholdConfig  ` )

Threshold for categorical features of anomaly detection. This is shared by all types of Featurestore Monitoring for categorical features (i.e. Features with type ( `  feature.ValueType  ` ) BOOL or STRING).

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;snapshotAnalysis&quot;: {object (SnapshotAnalysis)},&quot;importFeaturesAnalysis&quot;: {object (ImportFeaturesAnalysis)},&quot;numericalThresholdConfig&quot;: {object (ThresholdConfig)},&quot;categoricalThresholdConfig&quot;: {object (ThresholdConfig)}}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## SnapshotAnalysis

Configuration of the Featurestore's Snapshot Analysis Based Monitoring. This type of analysis generates statistics for each feature based on a snapshot of the latest feature value of each entities every monitoringInterval.

Fields

`disabled` `boolean`

The monitoring schedule for snapshot analysis. For EntityType-level config: unset / disabled = true indicates disabled by default for Features under it; otherwise by default enable snapshot analysis monitoring with monitoringInterval for Features under it. feature-level config: disabled = true indicates disabled regardless of the EntityType-level config; unset monitoringInterval indicates going with EntityType-level config; otherwise run snapshot analysis monitoring with monitoringInterval regardless of the EntityType-level config. Explicitly Disable the snapshot analysis based monitoring.

` monitoringInterval (deprecated)  ` ` string ( Duration  ` format)

> This item is deprecated\!

Configuration of the snapshot analysis based monitoring pipeline running interval. The value is rolled up to full day. If both `  monitoringIntervalDays  ` and the deprecated `monitoringInterval` field are set when creating/updating EntityTypes/Features, `  monitoringIntervalDays  ` will be used.

A duration in seconds with up to nine fractional digits, ending with ' `s` '. Example: `"3.5s"` .

`monitoringIntervalDays` `integer`

Configuration of the snapshot analysis based monitoring pipeline running interval. The value indicates number of days.

`stalenessDays` `integer`

Customized export features time window for snapshot analysis. Unit is one day. Default value is 3 weeks. Minimum value is 1 day. Maximum value is 4000 days.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;disabled&quot;: boolean,
  &quot;monitoringInterval&quot;: string,
  &quot;monitoringIntervalDays&quot;: integer,
  &quot;stalenessDays&quot;: integer
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## ImportFeaturesAnalysis

Configuration of the Featurestore's ImportFeature Analysis Based Monitoring. This type of analysis generates statistics for values of each feature imported by every `  ImportFeatureValues  ` operation.

Fields

`state` ` enum ( State  ` )

Whether to enable / disable / inherite default hebavior for import features analysis.

`anomalyDetectionBaseline` ` enum ( Baseline  ` )

The baseline used to do anomaly detection for the statistics generated by import features analysis.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;state&quot;: enum (State),&quot;anomalyDetectionBaseline&quot;: enum (Baseline)}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## State

The state defines whether to enable ImportFeature analysis.

Enums

`STATE_UNSPECIFIED`

Should not be used.

`DEFAULT`

The default behavior of whether to enable the monitoring. EntityType-level config: disabled. feature-level config: inherited from the configuration of EntityType this feature belongs to.

`ENABLED`

Explicitly enables import features analysis. EntityType-level config: by default enables import features analysis for all Features under it. feature-level config: enables import features analysis regardless of the EntityType-level config.

`DISABLED`

Explicitly disables import features analysis. EntityType-level config: by default disables import features analysis for all Features under it. feature-level config: disables import features analysis regardless of the EntityType-level config.

## Baseline

Defines the baseline to do anomaly detection for feature values imported by each `  ImportFeatureValues  ` operation.

Enums

`BASELINE_UNSPECIFIED`

Should not be used.

`LATEST_STATS`

Choose the later one statistics generated by either most recent snapshot analysis or previous import features analysis. If non of them exists, skip anomaly detection and only generate a statistics.

`MOST_RECENT_SNAPSHOT_STATS`

Use the statistics generated by the most recent snapshot analysis if exists.

`PREVIOUS_IMPORT_FEATURES_STATS`

Use the statistics generated by the previous import features analysis if exists.

## ThresholdConfig

The config for Featurestore Monitoring threshold.

Fields

`threshold` `Union type`

`threshold` can be only one of the following:

`value` `number`

Specify a threshold value that can trigger the alert. 1. For categorical feature, the distribution distance is calculated by L-inifinity norm. 2. For numerical feature, the distribution distance is calculated by Jensen–Shannon divergence. Each feature must have a non-zero threshold if they need to be monitored. Otherwise no alert will be triggered for that feature.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{

  // threshold
  &quot;value&quot;: number
  // Union type
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
