---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/projects.locations.ragCorpora.ragDataSchemas/batchCreate
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1beta1/projects.locations.ragCorpora.ragDataSchemas/batchCreate
title: 'Method: ragDataSchemas.batchCreate'
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

**Full name** : projects.locations.ragCorpora.ragDataSchemas.batchCreate

Batch Create one or more RagDataSchemas

### Endpoint

post `https: / /{service-endpoint} /v1beta1 /{parent} /ragDataSchemas:batchCreate`  

Where `{service-endpoint}` is one of the [supported service endpoints](https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest#rest_endpoints) .

### Path parameters

`parent` `string`

Required. The resource name of the RagCorpus to create the RagDataSchemas in. Format: `projects/{project}/locations/{location}/ragCorpora/{ragCorpus}`

### Request body

The request body contains data with the following structure:

Fields

`requests[]` ` object ( CreateRagDataSchemaRequest  ` )

Required. The request messages for `  VertexRagDataService.CreateRagDataSchema  ` . A maximum of 500 schemas can be created in a batch.

### Response body

If successful, the response body contains an instance of `  Operation  ` .

## CreateRagDataSchemaRequest

Request message for `  VertexRagDataService.CreateRagDataSchema  ` .

Fields

`parent` `string`

Required. The resource name of the RagCorpus to create the RagDataSchema in. Format: `projects/{project}/locations/{location}/ragCorpora/{ragCorpus}`

`ragDataSchema` ` object ( RagDataSchema  ` )

Required. The RagDataSchema to create.

`ragDataSchemaId` `string`

Optional. The id to use for the RagDataSchema, which will become the final component of the RagDataSchema's resource name if the user chooses to specify. Otherwise, RagDataSchema id will be generated by system.

This value should be up to 63 characters, and valid characters are /\[a-z\]\[0-9\]-/. The first character must be a letter, the last could be a letter or a number.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;parent&quot;: string,&quot;ragDataSchema&quot;: {object (RagDataSchema)},&quot;ragDataSchemaId&quot;: string}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
