---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/notebooks/workbench/reference/rest/v1/projects.locations.executions
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/notebooks/workbench/reference/rest/v1/projects.locations.executions
title: 'REST Resource: projects.locations.executions'
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

## Resource: Execution

The definition of a single executed notebook.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;executionTemplate&quot;: {object (ExecutionTemplate)},&quot;name&quot;: string,&quot;displayName&quot;: string,&quot;description&quot;: string,&quot;createTime&quot;: string,&quot;updateTime&quot;: string,&quot;state&quot;: enum (State),&quot;outputNotebookFile&quot;: string,&quot;jobUri&quot;: string}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Fields

`executionTemplate`

` object ( ExecutionTemplate  ` )

execute metadata including name, hardware spec, region, labels, etc.

`name`

`string`

Output only. The resource name of the execute. Format: `projects/{projectId}/locations/{location}/executions/{executionId}`

`displayName`

`string`

Output only. Name used for UI purposes. Name can only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores '\_'.

`description`

`string`

A brief description of this execution.

`createTime`

` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Time the Execution was instantiated.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`updateTime`

` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Time the Execution was last updated.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`state`

` enum ( State  ` )

Output only. State of the underlying AI Platform job.

`outputNotebookFile`

`string`

Output notebook file generated by this execution

`jobUri`

`string`

Output only. The URI of the external job used to execute the notebook.

### State

Enum description of the state of the underlying AIP job.

Enums

`STATE_UNSPECIFIED`

The job state is unspecified.

`QUEUED`

The job has been just created and processing has not yet begun.

`PREPARING`

The service is preparing to execution the job.

`RUNNING`

The job is in progress.

`SUCCEEDED`

The job completed successfully.

`FAILED`

The job failed. `errorMessage` should contain the details of the failure.

`CANCELLING`

The job is being cancelled. `errorMessage` should describe the reason for the cancellation.

`CANCELLED`

The job has been cancelled. `errorMessage` should describe the reason for the cancellation.

`EXPIRED`

The job has become expired (relevant to Agent Platform jobs) <https://cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1/JobState>

`INITIALIZING`

The Execution is being created.

## Methods

### `            create           `

Creates a new Execution in a given project and location.

### `            delete           `

Deletes execution

### `            get           `

Gets details of executions

### `            list           `

Lists executions in a given project and location
