---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1/Content
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1/Content
title: Content
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

The structured data content of a message.

A `Content` message contains a `role` field, which indicates the producer of the content, and a `parts` field, which contains the multi-part data of the message.

Fields

`role` `string`

Optional. The producer of the content. Must be either 'user' or 'model'.

If not set, the service will default to 'user'.

`parts[]` ` object ( Part  ` )

Required. A list of `Part` objects that make up a single message. Parts of a message can have different MIME types.

A `Content` message must have at least one `Part` .

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;role&quot;: string,&quot;parts&quot;: [{object (Part)}]}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Part

A datatype containing media that is part of a multi-part `Content` message.

A `Part` consists of data which has an associated datatype. A `Part` can only contain one of the accepted types in `Part.data` .

For media types that are not text, `Part` must have a fixed IANA MIME type identifying the type and subtype of the media if `inlineData` or `fileData` field is filled with raw bytes.

Fields

`thought` `boolean`

Optional. Indicates whether the `part` represents the model's thought process or reasoning.

`thoughtSignature` `string ( bytes format)`

Optional. An opaque signature for the thought so it can be reused in subsequent requests.

A base64-encoded string.

`mediaResolution` ` object ( MediaResolution  ` )

per part media resolution. Media resolution for the input media.

`data` `Union type`

`data` can be only one of the following:

`text` `string`

Optional. The text content of the part. When sent from the VSCode Gemini code Assist extension, references to @mentioned items will be converted to markdown boldface text. For example `@my-repo` will be converted to and sent as `**my-repo**` by the IDE agent.

`inlineData` ` object ( Blob  ` )

Optional. The inline data content of the part. This can be used to include images, audio, or video in a request.

`fileData` ` object ( FileData  ` )

Optional. The URI-based data of the part. This can be used to include files from Google Cloud Storage.

`functionCall` ` object ( FunctionCall  ` )

Optional. A predicted function call returned from the model. This contains the name of the function to call and the arguments to pass to the function.

`functionResponse` ` object ( FunctionResponse  ` )

Optional. The result of a function call. This is used to provide the model with the result of a function call that it predicted.

`executableCode` ` object ( ExecutableCode  ` )

Optional. code generated by the model that is intended to be executed.

`codeExecutionResult` ` object ( CodeExecutionResult  ` )

Optional. The result of executing the `ExecutableCode` .

`metadata` `Union type`

`metadata` can be only one of the following:

`videoMetadata` ` object ( VideoMetadata  ` )

Optional. Video metadata. The metadata should only be specified while the video data is presented in inlineData or fileData.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;thought&quot;: boolean,&quot;thoughtSignature&quot;: string,&quot;mediaResolution&quot;: {object (MediaResolution)},// data&quot;text&quot;: string,&quot;inlineData&quot;: {object (Blob)},&quot;fileData&quot;: {object (FileData)},&quot;functionCall&quot;: {object (FunctionCall)},&quot;functionResponse&quot;: {object (FunctionResponse)},&quot;executableCode&quot;: {object (ExecutableCode)},&quot;codeExecutionResult&quot;: {object (CodeExecutionResult)}// Union type// metadata&quot;videoMetadata&quot;: {object (VideoMetadata)}// Union type}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Blob

A content blob.

A `blob` contains data of a specific media type. It is used to represent images, audio, and video.

Fields

`mimeType` `string`

Required. The IANA standard MIME type of the source data.

`data` `string ( bytes format)`

Required. The raw bytes of the data.

A base64-encoded string.

`displayName` `string`

Optional. The display name of the blob. Used to provide a label or filename to distinguish blobs.

This field is only returned in `PromptMessage` for prompt management. It is used in the Gemini calls only when server-side tools ( `codeExecution` , `googleSearch` , and `urlContext` ) are enabled.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;mimeType&quot;: string,
  &quot;data&quot;: string,
  &quot;displayName&quot;: string
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## FileData

URI-based data.

A `FileData` message contains a URI pointing to data of a specific media type. It is used to represent images, audio, and video stored in Google Cloud Storage.

Fields

`mimeType` `string`

Required. The IANA standard MIME type of the source data.

`fileUri` `string`

Required. The URI of the file in Google Cloud Storage.

`displayName` `string`

Optional. The display name of the file. Used to provide a label or filename to distinguish files.

This field is only returned in `PromptMessage` for prompt management. It is used in the Gemini calls only when server side tools ( `codeExecution` , `googleSearch` , and `urlContext` ) are enabled.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;mimeType&quot;: string,
  &quot;fileUri&quot;: string,
  &quot;displayName&quot;: string
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## FunctionCall

A predicted `  FunctionCall  ` returned from the model that contains a string representing the `  FunctionDeclaration.name  ` and a structured JSON object containing the parameters and their values.

Fields

`name` `string`

Optional. The name of the function to call. Matches `  FunctionDeclaration.name  ` .

`args` ` object ( Struct  ` format)

Optional. The function parameters and values in JSON object format. See `  FunctionDeclaration.parameters  ` for parameter details.

`partialArgs[]` ` object ( PartialArg  ` )

Optional. The partial argument value of the function call. If provided, represents the arguments/fields that are streamed incrementally.

`willContinue` `boolean`

Optional. Whether this is the last part of the FunctionCall. If true, another partial message for the current FunctionCall is expected to follow.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;name&quot;: string,&quot;args&quot;: {object},&quot;partialArgs&quot;: [{object (PartialArg)}],&quot;willContinue&quot;: boolean}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## PartialArg

Partial argument value of the function call.

Fields

`jsonPath` `string`

Required. A JSON Path (RFC 9535) to the argument being streamed. <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9535> . e.g. "$.foo.bar\[0\].data".

`willContinue` `boolean`

Optional. Whether this is not the last part of the same jsonPath. If true, another PartialArg message for the current jsonPath is expected to follow.

`delta` `Union type`

The delta of field value being streamed. `delta` can be only one of the following:

`nullValue` `null`

Optional. Represents a null value.

`numberValue` `number`

Optional. Represents a double value.

`stringValue` `string`

Optional. Represents a string value.

`boolValue` `boolean`

Optional. Represents a boolean value.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;jsonPath&quot;: string,
  &quot;willContinue&quot;: boolean,

  // delta
  &quot;nullValue&quot;: null,
  &quot;numberValue&quot;: number,
  &quot;stringValue&quot;: string,
  &quot;boolValue&quot;: boolean
  // Union type
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## FunctionResponse

The result output from a `  FunctionCall  ` that contains a string representing the `  FunctionDeclaration.name  ` and a structured JSON object containing any output from the function is used as context to the model. This should contain the result of a `FunctionCall` made based on model prediction.

Fields

`name` `string`

Required. The name of the function to call. Matches `  FunctionDeclaration.name  ` and `  FunctionCall.name  ` .

`response` ` object ( Struct  ` format)

Required. The function response in JSON object format. Use "output" key to specify function output and "error" key to specify error details (if any). If "output" and "error" keys are not specified, then whole "response" is treated as function output.

`parts[]` ` object ( FunctionResponsePart  ` )

Optional. Ordered `Parts` that constitute a function response. Parts may have different IANA MIME types.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;name&quot;: string,&quot;response&quot;: {object},&quot;parts&quot;: [{object (FunctionResponsePart)}]}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## FunctionResponsePart

A datatype containing media that is part of a `FunctionResponse` message.

A `FunctionResponsePart` consists of data which has an associated datatype. A `FunctionResponsePart` can only contain one of the accepted types in `FunctionResponsePart.data` .

A `FunctionResponsePart` must have a fixed IANA MIME type identifying the type and subtype of the media if the `inlineData` field is filled with raw bytes.

Fields

`data` `Union type`

The data of the function response part. `data` can be only one of the following:

`inlineData` ` object ( FunctionResponseBlob  ` )

Inline media bytes.

`fileData` ` object ( FunctionResponseFileData  ` )

URI based data.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{// data&quot;inlineData&quot;: {object (FunctionResponseBlob)},&quot;fileData&quot;: {object (FunctionResponseFileData)}// Union type}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## FunctionResponseBlob

Raw media bytes for function response.

Text should not be sent as raw bytes, use the 'text' field.

Fields

`mimeType` `string`

Required. The IANA standard MIME type of the source data.

`data` `string ( bytes format)`

Required. Raw bytes.

A base64-encoded string.

`displayName` `string`

Optional. Display name of the blob.

Used to provide a label or filename to distinguish blobs.

This field is only returned in PromptMessage for prompt management. It is currently used in the Gemini GenerateContent calls only when server side tools (codeExecution, googleSearch, and urlContext) are enabled.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;mimeType&quot;: string,
  &quot;data&quot;: string,
  &quot;displayName&quot;: string
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## FunctionResponseFileData

URI based data for function response.

Fields

`mimeType` `string`

Required. The IANA standard MIME type of the source data.

`fileUri` `string`

Required. URI.

`displayName` `string`

Optional. Display name of the file data.

Used to provide a label or filename to distinguish file datas.

This field is only returned in PromptMessage for prompt management. It is currently used in the Gemini GenerateContent calls only when server side tools (codeExecution, googleSearch, and urlContext) are enabled.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;mimeType&quot;: string,
  &quot;fileUri&quot;: string,
  &quot;displayName&quot;: string
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## ExecutableCode

code generated by the model that is meant to be executed, and the result returned to the model.

Generated when using the `CodeExecution` tool, in which the code will be automatically executed, and a corresponding `  CodeExecutionResult  ` will also be generated.

Fields

`language` ` enum ( Language  ` )

Required. Programming language of the `code` .

`code` `string`

Required. The code to be executed.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;language&quot;: enum (Language),&quot;code&quot;: string}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Language

Supported programming languages for the generated code.

Enums

`LANGUAGE_UNSPECIFIED`

Unspecified language. This value should not be used.

`PYTHON`

Python \>= 3.10, with numpy and simpy available.

## CodeExecutionResult

result of executing the `  ExecutableCode  ` .

Generated only when the `CodeExecution` tool is used.

Fields

`outcome` ` enum ( Outcome  ` )

Required. Outcome of the code execution.

`output` `string`

Optional. Contains stdout when code execution is successful, stderr or other description otherwise.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;outcome&quot;: enum (Outcome),&quot;output&quot;: string}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Outcome

Enumeration of possible outcomes of the code execution.

Enums

`OUTCOME_UNSPECIFIED`

Unspecified status. This value should not be used.

`OUTCOME_OK`

code execution completed successfully. `output` contains the stdout, if any.

`OUTCOME_FAILED`

code execution failed. `output` contains the stderr and stdout, if any.

`OUTCOME_DEADLINE_EXCEEDED`

code execution ran for too long, and was cancelled. There may or may not be a partial `output` present.

## VideoMetadata

Provides metadata for a video, including the start and end offsets for clipping and the frame rate.

Fields

`startOffset` ` string ( Duration  ` format)

Optional. The start offset of the video.

A duration in seconds with up to nine fractional digits, ending with ' `s` '. Example: `"3.5s"` .

`endOffset` ` string ( Duration  ` format)

Optional. The end offset of the video.

A duration in seconds with up to nine fractional digits, ending with ' `s` '. Example: `"3.5s"` .

`fps` `number`

Optional. The frame rate of the video sent to the model. If not specified, the default value is 1.0. The valid range is (0.0, 24.0\].

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;startOffset&quot;: string,
  &quot;endOffset&quot;: string,
  &quot;fps&quot;: number
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## MediaResolution

per part media resolution. Media resolution for the input media.

Fields

`value` `Union type`

`value` can be only one of the following:

`level` ` enum ( Level  ` )

The tokenization quality used for given media.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{// value&quot;level&quot;: enum (Level)// Union type}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Level

The media resolution level.

Enums

`MEDIA_RESOLUTION_UNSPECIFIED`

Media resolution has not been set.

`MEDIA_RESOLUTION_LOW`

Media resolution set to low.

`MEDIA_RESOLUTION_MEDIUM`

Media resolution set to medium.

`MEDIA_RESOLUTION_HIGH`

Media resolution set to high.

`MEDIA_RESOLUTION_ULTRA_HIGH`

Media resolution set to ultra high. This is for image only.
