---
name: documents/docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1/projects.locations.pipelineJobs
uri: https://docs.cloud.google.com/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/reference/rest/v1/projects.locations.pipelineJobs
title: 'REST Resource: projects.locations.pipelineJobs'
description: Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is a central console designed for platform and security administrators to build, scale, monitor, optimize, and govern the entire lifecycle of AI agents.
data_source: docs.cloud.google.com
---

## Resource: PipelineJob

An instance of a machine learning PipelineJob.

Fields

`name` `string`

Output only. The resource name of the PipelineJob.

`displayName` `string`

The display name of the Pipeline. The name can be up to 128 characters long and can consist of any UTF-8 characters.

`createTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Pipeline creation time.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`startTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Pipeline start time.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`endTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Pipeline end time.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`updateTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. timestamp when this PipelineJob was most recently updated.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`pipelineSpec` ` object ( Struct  ` format)

A compiled definition of a pipeline, represented as a `JSON` object. Defines the structure of the pipeline, including its components, tasks, and parameters. This specification is generated by compiling a pipeline function defined in `Python` using the `Kubeflow Pipelines SDK` .

`state` ` enum ( PipelineState  ` )

Output only. The detailed state of the job.

`jobDetail` ` object ( PipelineJobDetail  ` )

Output only. The details of pipeline run. Not available in the list view.

`error` ` object ( Status  ` )

Output only. The error that occurred during pipeline execution. Only populated when the pipeline's state is FAILED or CANCELLED.

`labels` `map (key: string, value: string)`

The labels with user-defined metadata to organize PipelineJob.

label keys and values can be no longer than 64 characters (Unicode codepoints), can only contain lowercase letters, numeric characters, underscores and dashes. International characters are allowed.

See <https://goo.gl/xmQnxf> for more information and examples of labels.

Note there is some reserved label key for Agent Platform Pipelines. - `vertex-ai-pipelines-run-billing-id` , user set value will get overrided.

`runtimeConfig` ` object ( RuntimeConfig  ` )

Runtime config of the pipeline.

`encryptionSpec` ` object ( EncryptionSpec  ` )

Customer-managed encryption key spec for a pipelineJob. If set, this PipelineJob and all of its sub-resources will be secured by this key.

`serviceAccount` `string`

The service account that the pipeline workload runs as. If not specified, the Compute Engine default service account in the project will be used. See <https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/service-accounts#default_service_account>

Users starting the pipeline must have the `iam.serviceAccounts.actAs` permission on this service account.

`network` `string`

The full name of the Compute Engine [network](https://docs.cloud.google.com/compute/docs/networks-and-firewalls#networks) to which the Pipeline Job's workload should be peered. For example, `projects/12345/global/networks/myVPC` . [Format](https://docs.cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/rest/v1/networks/insert) is of the form `projects/{project}/global/networks/{network}` . Where {project} is a project number, as in `12345` , and {network} is a network name.

Private services access must already be configured for the network. Pipeline job will apply the network configuration to the Google Cloud resources being launched, if applied, such as Agent Platform Training or Dataflow job. If left unspecified, the workload is not peered with any network.

`reservedIpRanges[]` `string`

A list of names for the reserved ip ranges under the VPC network that can be used for this Pipeline Job's workload.

If set, we will deploy the Pipeline Job's workload within the provided ip ranges. Otherwise, the job will be deployed to any ip ranges under the provided VPC network.

Example: \['vertex-ai-ip-range'\].

`pscInterfaceConfig` ` object ( PscInterfaceConfig  ` )

Optional. Configuration for PSC-I for PipelineJob.

`templateUri` `string`

A template uri from where the `  PipelineJob.pipeline_spec  ` , if empty, will be downloaded. Currently, only uri from Vertex Template Registry & Gallery is supported. Reference to <https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/pipelines/create-pipeline-template> .

`templateMetadata` ` object ( PipelineTemplateMetadata  ` )

Output only. Pipeline template metadata. Will fill up fields if `  PipelineJob.template_uri  ` is from supported template registry.

`scheduleName` `string`

Output only. The schedule resource name. Only returned if the Pipeline is created by Schedule API.

`preflightValidations` `boolean`

Optional. Whether to do component level validations before job creation.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;name&quot;: string,&quot;displayName&quot;: string,&quot;createTime&quot;: string,&quot;startTime&quot;: string,&quot;endTime&quot;: string,&quot;updateTime&quot;: string,&quot;pipelineSpec&quot;: {object},&quot;state&quot;: enum (PipelineState),&quot;jobDetail&quot;: {object (PipelineJobDetail)},&quot;error&quot;: {object (Status)},&quot;labels&quot;: {string: string,...},&quot;runtimeConfig&quot;: {object (RuntimeConfig)},&quot;encryptionSpec&quot;: {object (EncryptionSpec)},&quot;serviceAccount&quot;: string,&quot;network&quot;: string,&quot;reservedIpRanges&quot;: [string],&quot;pscInterfaceConfig&quot;: {object (PscInterfaceConfig)},&quot;templateUri&quot;: string,&quot;templateMetadata&quot;: {object (PipelineTemplateMetadata)},&quot;scheduleName&quot;: string,&quot;preflightValidations&quot;: boolean}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### PipelineJobDetail

The runtime detail of PipelineJob.

Fields

`pipelineContext` ` object ( Context  ` )

Output only. The context of the pipeline.

`pipelineRunContext` ` object ( Context  ` )

Output only. The context of the current pipeline run.

`taskDetails[]` ` object ( PipelineTaskDetail  ` )

Output only. The runtime details of the tasks under the pipeline.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;pipelineContext&quot;: {object (Context)},&quot;pipelineRunContext&quot;: {object (Context)},&quot;taskDetails&quot;: [{object (PipelineTaskDetail)}]}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### PipelineTaskDetail

The runtime detail of a task execution.

Fields

`taskId` `string ( int64 format)`

Output only. The system generated id of the task.

`parentTaskId` `string ( int64 format)`

Output only. The id of the parent task if the task is within a component scope. Empty if the task is at the root level.

`taskName` `string`

Output only. The user specified name of the task that is defined in `  pipelineSpec  ` .

`createTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Task create time.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`startTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Task start time.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`endTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Task end time.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`executorDetail` ` object ( PipelineTaskExecutorDetail  ` )

Output only. The detailed execution info.

`state` ` enum ( State  ` )

Output only. state of the task.

`execution` ` object ( Execution  ` )

Output only. The execution metadata of the task.

`error` ` object ( Status  ` )

Output only. The error that occurred during task execution. Only populated when the task's state is FAILED or CANCELLED.

`pipelineTaskStatus[]` ` object ( PipelineTaskStatus  ` )

Output only. A list of task status. This field keeps a record of task status evolving over time.

`inputs` ` map (key: string, value: object ( ArtifactList  ` ))

Output only. The runtime input artifacts of the task.

`outputs` ` map (key: string, value: object ( ArtifactList  ` ))

Output only. The runtime output artifacts of the task.

`taskUniqueName` `string`

Output only. The unique name of a task. This field is used by rerun pipeline job. Console UI and Agent Platform SDK will support triggering pipeline job reruns. The name is constructed by concatenating all the parent tasks name with the task name. For example, if a task named "child\_task" has a parent task named "parent\_task\_1" and parent task 1 has a parent task named "parent\_task\_2", the task unique name will be "parent\_task\_2.parent\_task\_1.child\_task".

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;taskId&quot;: string,&quot;parentTaskId&quot;: string,&quot;taskName&quot;: string,&quot;createTime&quot;: string,&quot;startTime&quot;: string,&quot;endTime&quot;: string,&quot;executorDetail&quot;: {object (PipelineTaskExecutorDetail)},&quot;state&quot;: enum (State),&quot;execution&quot;: {object (Execution)},&quot;error&quot;: {object (Status)},&quot;pipelineTaskStatus&quot;: [{object (PipelineTaskStatus)}],&quot;inputs&quot;: {string: {object (ArtifactList)},...},&quot;outputs&quot;: {string: {object (ArtifactList)},...},&quot;taskUniqueName&quot;: string}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### PipelineTaskExecutorDetail

The runtime detail of a pipeline executor.

Fields

`details` `Union type`

`details` can be only one of the following:

`containerDetail` ` object ( ContainerDetail  ` )

Output only. The detailed info for a container executor.

`customJobDetail` ` object ( CustomJobDetail  ` )

Output only. The detailed info for a custom job executor.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{// details&quot;containerDetail&quot;: {object (ContainerDetail)},&quot;customJobDetail&quot;: {object (CustomJobDetail)}// Union type}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### ContainerDetail

The detail of a container execution. It contains the job names of the lifecycle of a container execution.

Fields

`mainJob` `string`

Output only. The name of the `  CustomJob  ` for the main container execution.

`preCachingCheckJob` `string`

Output only. The name of the `  CustomJob  ` for the pre-caching-check container execution. This job will be available if the `  PipelineJob.pipeline_spec  ` specifies the `pre_caching_check` hook in the lifecycle events.

`failedMainJobs[]` `string`

Output only. The names of the previously failed `  CustomJob  ` for the main container executions. The list includes the all attempts in chronological order.

`failedPreCachingCheckJobs[]` `string`

Output only. The names of the previously failed `  CustomJob  ` for the pre-caching-check container executions. This job will be available if the `  PipelineJob.pipeline_spec  ` specifies the `pre_caching_check` hook in the lifecycle events. The list includes the all attempts in chronological order.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;mainJob&quot;: string,
  &quot;preCachingCheckJob&quot;: string,
  &quot;failedMainJobs&quot;: [
    string
  ],
  &quot;failedPreCachingCheckJobs&quot;: [
    string
  ]
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### CustomJobDetail

The detailed info for a custom job executor.

Fields

`job` `string`

Output only. The name of the `  CustomJob  ` .

`failedJobs[]` `string`

Output only. The names of the previously failed `  CustomJob  ` . The list includes the all attempts in chronological order.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;job&quot;: string,
  &quot;failedJobs&quot;: [
    string
  ]
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### State

Specifies state of TaskExecution

Enums

`STATE_UNSPECIFIED`

Unspecified.

`PENDING`

Specifies pending state for the task.

`RUNNING`

Specifies task is being executed.

`SUCCEEDED`

Specifies task completed successfully.

`CANCEL_PENDING`

Specifies Task cancel is in pending state.

`CANCELLING`

Specifies task is being cancelled.

`CANCELLED`

Specifies task was cancelled.

`FAILED`

Specifies task failed.

`SKIPPED`

Specifies task was skipped due to cache hit.

`NOT_TRIGGERED`

Specifies that the task was not triggered because the task's trigger policy is not satisfied. The trigger policy is specified in the `condition` field of `  PipelineJob.pipeline_spec  ` .

### PipelineTaskStatus

A single record of the task status.

Fields

`updateTime` ` string ( Timestamp  ` format)

Output only. Update time of this status.

Uses RFC 3339, where generated output will always be Z-normalized and use 0, 3, 6 or 9 fractional digits. Offsets other than "Z" are also accepted. Examples: `"2014-10-02T15:01:23Z"` , `"2014-10-02T15:01:23.045123456Z"` or `"2014-10-02T15:01:23+05:30"` .

`state` ` enum ( State  ` )

Output only. The state of the task.

`error` ` object ( Status  ` )

Output only. The error that occurred during the state. May be set when the state is any of the non-final state (PENDING/RUNNING/CANCELLING) or FAILED state. If the state is FAILED, the error here is final and not going to be retried. If the state is a non-final state, the error indicates a system-error being retried.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;updateTime&quot;: string,&quot;state&quot;: enum (State),&quot;error&quot;: {object (Status)}}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### ArtifactList

A list of artifact metadata.

Fields

`artifacts[]` ` object ( Artifact  ` )

Output only. A list of artifact metadata.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;artifacts&quot;: [{object (Artifact)}]}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### RuntimeConfig

The runtime config of a PipelineJob.

Fields

` parameters (deprecated)  ` ` map (key: string, value: object ( Value  ` ))

> This item is deprecated\!

Deprecated. Use `  RuntimeConfig.parameter_values  ` instead. The runtime parameters of the PipelineJob. The parameters will be passed into `  PipelineJob.pipeline_spec  ` to replace the placeholders at runtime. This field is used by pipelines built using `PipelineJob.pipeline_spec.schema_version` 2.0.0 or lower, such as pipelines built using Kubeflow Pipelines SDK 1.8 or lower.

`gcsOutputDirectory` `string`

Required. A path in a Cloud Storage bucket, which will be treated as the root output directory of the pipeline. It is used by the system to generate the paths of output artifacts. The artifact paths are generated with a sub-path pattern `{job_id}/{taskId}/{outputKey}` under the specified output directory. The service account specified in this pipeline must have the `storage.objects.get` and `storage.objects.create` permissions for this bucket.

`parameterValues` ` map (key: string, value: value ( Value  ` format))

The runtime parameters of the PipelineJob. The parameters will be passed into `  PipelineJob.pipeline_spec  ` to replace the placeholders at runtime. This field is used by pipelines built using `PipelineJob.pipeline_spec.schema_version` 2.1.0, such as pipelines built using Kubeflow Pipelines SDK 1.9 or higher and the v2 DSL.

`failurePolicy` ` enum ( PipelineFailurePolicy  ` )

Represents the failure policy of a pipeline. Currently, the default of a pipeline is that the pipeline will continue to run until no more tasks can be executed, also known as PIPELINE\_FAILURE\_POLICY\_FAIL\_SLOW. However, if a pipeline is set to PIPELINE\_FAILURE\_POLICY\_FAIL\_FAST, it will stop scheduling any new tasks when a task has failed. Any scheduled tasks will continue to completion.

`inputArtifacts` ` map (key: string, value: object ( InputArtifact  ` ))

The runtime artifacts of the PipelineJob. The key will be the input artifact name and the value would be one of the InputArtifact.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{&quot;parameters&quot;: {string: {object (Value)},...},&quot;gcsOutputDirectory&quot;: string,&quot;parameterValues&quot;: {string: value,...},&quot;failurePolicy&quot;: enum (PipelineFailurePolicy),&quot;inputArtifacts&quot;: {string: {object (InputArtifact)},...}}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Value

value is the value of the field.

Fields

`value` `Union type`

`value` can be only one of the following:

`intValue` `string ( int64 format)`

An integer value.

`doubleValue` `number`

A double value.

`stringValue` `string`

A string value.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{

  // value
  &quot;intValue&quot;: string,
  &quot;doubleValue&quot;: number,
  &quot;stringValue&quot;: string
  // Union type
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### PipelineFailurePolicy

Represents the failure policy of a pipeline. Currently, the default of a pipeline is that the pipeline will continue to run until no more tasks can be executed, also known as PIPELINE\_FAILURE\_POLICY\_FAIL\_SLOW. However, if a pipeline is set to PIPELINE\_FAILURE\_POLICY\_FAIL\_FAST, it will stop scheduling any new tasks when a task has failed. Any scheduled tasks will continue to completion.

Enums

`PIPELINE_FAILURE_POLICY_UNSPECIFIED`

Default value, and follows fail slow behavior.

`PIPELINE_FAILURE_POLICY_FAIL_SLOW`

Indicates that the pipeline should continue to run until all possible tasks have been scheduled and completed.

`PIPELINE_FAILURE_POLICY_FAIL_FAST`

Indicates that the pipeline should stop scheduling new tasks after a task has failed.

### InputArtifact

The type of an input artifact.

Fields

`kind` `Union type`

`kind` can be only one of the following:

`artifactId` `string`

Artifact resource id from MLMD. Which is the last portion of an artifact resource name: `projects/{project}/locations/{location}/metadataStores/default/artifacts/{artifactId}` . The artifact must stay within the same project, location and default metadatastore as the pipeline.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{

  // kind
  &quot;artifactId&quot;: string
  // Union type
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### PipelineTemplateMetadata

Pipeline template metadata if `  PipelineJob.template_uri  ` is from supported template registry. Currently, the only supported registry is Artifact Registry.

Fields

`version` `string`

The versionName in artifact registry.

Will always be presented in output if the `  PipelineJob.template_uri  ` is from supported template registry.

Format is "sha256:abcdef123456...".

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>JSON representation</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><pre dir="ltr" data-is-upgraded="" style="border: 0;margin: 0;" translate="no"><code>{
  &quot;version&quot;: string
}</code></pre></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Methods

### `            batchCancel           `

Batch cancel PipelineJobs.

### `            batchDelete           `

Batch deletes PipelineJobs The Operation is atomic.

### `            cancel           `

Cancels a PipelineJob.

### `            create           `

Creates a PipelineJob.

### `            delete           `

Deletes a PipelineJob.

### `            get           `

Gets a PipelineJob.

### `            list           `

Lists PipelineJobs in a Location.
